Ensrainbow init (#101)
namehash/ensnode: apps/ensrainbow/README.md

> # ENSRainbow

Reviewer: What do you think about updating the `README.md` file in the root of the monorepo so that we have a little directory of links to the apps in the ENSNode project? I think its nice to make `ensrainbow` more discoverable from the root readme.

> ENSRainbow is a label healing sidecar service for ENS names. It provides a simple API endpoint to heal ENS labelhashes back to their original labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENSRainbow is an ENSNode sidecar service for healing ENS labels. It provides a simple API endpoint to heal ENS labelhashes back to their original labels.
```

> Special thanks to [The Graph Protocol](https://github.com/graphprotocol/ens-rainbow) for their work on the original ENS Rainbow project and rainbow table generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special thanks to [The Graph Protocol](https://github.com/graphprotocol/ens-rainbow) for their work on the original ENS rainbow table generation used in the ENS Subgraph.
```

> 

Reviewer: There's a nice opportunity for us to document some key ideas for people who don't know what the ENSRainbow project is all about. For example:

1. The problem: Unknown labels. What are they? How are they formatted? What causes them? Why are they forever a consideration in the ENS protocol? How do they influence indexing ENS data? How do they influence apps (and user interfaces) building on ENS?
2. Related background information: Ex: labels, labelhashes, keccak256, rainbow tables
3. The solution: How ENSRainbow works to mitigate the problem.

I appreciate that this is probably a pretty big task that probably deserves a PR all on its own. I also appreciate that some of these questions might be tricky to answer, so please don't hesitate at all to ask me or anyone else on the team to take the lead on writing about some of these ideas.

Suggest moving the ideas in this comment into its own independent issue and following up on it separately later.

Author: New issue: https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/issues/117

> 

Reviewer: There's a nice opportunity for us to add an "Architecture Overview" section to the readme. Happy to start with something simple for this that might at least identify the big picture of how ENSRainbow is implemented.

For example:
* ENSRainbow uses LevelDB as an embedded key-value store to map from labelhash -> label.
* ENSRainbow exposes an API endpoint for healing labelhashes back to their label preimage.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Suggest we also include a section in the readme about how we're operating an instance of ENSRainbow for the ENS community to freely make use of at https://api.ensrainbow.io.

I'm happy to add this to the readme even if this cloud instance hasn't gone live yet. I'm sure we'll get it live quickly!

Here's some inspiration for how we might communicate these ideas: https://github.com/namehash/ensnode/wiki/ENS-Subgraph#namehash-labs-hosted-graph-node-instance

- Docker installed on your system
- Node.js v20 or later (for local development)

> ## Getting the Rainbow Tables

Reviewer: Very excited for ENSRainbow!

Perhaps we won't release it this Thursday, but rather the next coming Thursday (ex: Feb 6)? Let's see.

One key idea for us to document here would be to note how this initial release of ENSRainbow is focused on backwards compatibility with the ENS Subgraph, but that we'll be adding enhancements to ENSRainbow soon that will include the ability to heal many more unknown labels than the ENS Subgraph.

I think it's important and valuable for us to plant this seed of an idea in people's minds about what we're working to do it. It will shape their whole perception of the value proposition that we're working towards.

Open to different ideas for where we write these ideas in the readme. Perhaps we add them to the "Architecture Overview" section?

> The rainbow tables (6.37 GB) are stored in a public bucket. To download them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For backwards compatibility with the ENS Subgraph, the current rainbow tables (6.37 GB) are exactly the same as those published by [The Graph Protocol](https://github.com/graphprotocol/ens-rainbow). Our copies are stored in a public bucket. To download them:
```

> 1. Download the rainbow table and verify checksum:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the rainbow tables and verify checksum:
```

```bash
# Download files
wget https://bucket.ensrainbow.io/ens_names.sql.gz
wget https://bucket.ensrainbow.io/ens_names.sql.gz.sha256sum

# Verify checksum
sha256sum -c ens_names.sql.gz.sha256sum
```

## Quick Start with Docker

1. Build the Docker image (includes data ingestion):
```bash
docker build -t ensnode/ensrainbow .
```

2. Run the container:
```bash
docker run -d -p 3001:3001 ensnode/ensrainbow
```

The service will be available at `http://localhost:3001`.

## API Endpoints

### Health Check
```bash
curl http://localhost:3001/health
```
Response: `{"status":"ok"}`

### Heal Label
```bash
curl http://localhost:3001/v1/heal/0x[labelhash]
```
Example:
```bash
curl http://localhost:3001/v1/heal/0x78441d2a930a233460507c2f25aea5ec5dc278db6aeef9e6ee8b930ccc150e58
```

> Response: `{"healed":"sprayfoamroofingaugusta"}`

Author: It is the first entry (with lowest node) in the rainbow tables.

If the label is not found: `{"healed":null}`

> 

Reviewer: It would also be nice to document the schema that's returned with any errors to this endpoint.

> 

Author: They might be unnormalized and contain anything. Would you like to add some restrictions?

## Local Development

1. Install dependencies:
```bash

> npm install

Reviewer: There's several commands documented here that use `npm`. Suggest we change them all to `pnpm`.

```

2. Build TypeScript:
```bash
npm run build
```

3. Run data ingestion (requires ens_names.sql.gz):
```bash
npm run ingest
```

4. Start the service:
```bash
npm start
```

## Environment Variables

- `PORT`: Server port (default: 3001)
- `DATA_DIR`: Directory for LevelDB data (default: './data')

> - `NODE_ENV`: Node environment (default: 'production' in Docker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NODE_ENV`: Node.js environment (default: 'production' in Docker)
```

Since we're in "ENS Land" there's multiple interpretations for "Node", therefore suggesting the modification above.

Also, could you please include more info on what the purpose of this environment variable is? I understand it's something for Node.js, but is there a special reason we're mentioning it in our readme file here?

Author: Actually, it does nothing now, but we can use it e.g. to show more debug logs. I am removing it from the readme.
